Add README for Datadog.Trace NuGet package (#2069)
DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet: docs/Datadog.Trace/README.md

> :warning: Ensure you dispose of the scope returned from StartActive. Disposing the scope will close the span, and ensure the trace is flushed to Datadog once all its spans are closed. 

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Start a new span
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("custom-operation")
{
    // Do something
}
```

## Release Notes

You can view the [notes for the latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases).  

## Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0

Version 2.0 of this package introduced a number of breaking changes to the API which allowed various performance improvements, added new features, and deprecated problematic ways of using the package. Most of these changes will not require any changes to your code, but some patterns are no longer supported or recommended.

This section describes some of the most important breaking changes. For full details see [the release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v2.0.0).

> ## Updates for supported .NET versions

Reviewer: I think we should move this section up so that all the `###` subsections below fall under `## Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0`

Author: I actually meant for this to be a `###` under the `Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0` header, as it describes a breaking change. Do you think it's better as its own section entirely?

Reviewer: Looking at this comment 23 days later and I can't remember why I suggested this 😅

Reviewer: > I actually meant for this to be a `###`

But it's a `##` right now. Do we need to fix it?

Reviewer 2: Fixed in eec9224d1c952447029cbcb1326a8128b2e3fcac

This change should not generally require changes to your code, but the type of `Tracer.Settings` is now an `ImmutableTracerSettings` instance, not a `TracerSettings` instance.

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();
settings.TraceEnabled = false;   // TracerSettings are mutable 

Tracer.Configure(settings);

// All properties on Settings are now read-only 
// Tracer.Instance.Settings.TraceEnabled = false; // <- DOES NOT COMPILE
```

### ADO.NET integrations can be disabled individually

In version 1.x, you could disable automatic instrumentation of all ADO.NET integrations using the `AdoNet` integration ID. From version 2.0, this integration ID has been removed and replaced with the following integration IDs:

* `MySql`
* `Npgsql` (PostreSQL)
* `Oracle`
* `SqlClient` (SQL Server)
* `Sqlite`

> This enables you to disable specific ADO.NET integrations if required. [See our documentation for a complete list of supported integration IDS](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core/#integrations).

Reviewer: "enable" and "disable" too close to each other for comfort
```suggestion
This allows you to disable specific ADO.NET integrations if required. [See our documentation for a complete list of supported integration IDS](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core/#integrations).
```

> This change also removes the now-obsolete `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` setting, and corresponding environment variable `DD_TRACE_ADONET_EXCLUDED_TYPES`. Replace usages of these (for an example integration ID `MyIntegrationId`) with `TracerSettings.Integrations["MyIntegrationId"].Enabled` and `DD_TRACE_MyIntegrationId_ENABLED` respectively: 

Reviewer: The standard syntax in Datadog documentation is `<REPLACE_THIS>`

```suggestion
This change also removes the now-obsolete `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` setting and the corresponding environment variable `DD_TRACE_ADONET_EXCLUDED_TYPES`. Replace usages of these with `TracerSettings.Integrations["<INTEGRATION_NAME>"].Enabled` and `DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION_NAME>_ENABLED`, respectively: 
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

settings.AdoNetExcludedTypes.Add("MySql");      // <- Delete this line
settings.Integrations["MySql"].Enabled = false; // <- Add this line
```

> ### ElasticsearchNet5 integration ID has been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `ElasticsearchNet5` integration ID has been removed
```

> In version 1.x, the integration ID for `Elasticsearch.Net` in version 5.x was `ElasticsearchNet5`, and for version 6.x+ was `ElasticsearchNet`. From version 2.0, support for the ID `ElasticsearchNet5` has been removed, and instead `ElasticsearchNet` now can be used to  

Reviewer: can be used to...?

Reviewer 2: Has been resolved by Andrew in one commit

> In version 1.x, the integration ID for `Elasticsearch.Net` in version 5.x was `ElasticsearchNet5`, and for version 6.x+ was `ElasticsearchNet`. From version 2.0, support for the ID `ElasticsearchNet5` has been removed, and instead `ElasticsearchNet` now can be used to  

Author: ```suggestion
In version 1.x, the integration ID for `Elasticsearch.Net` in version 5.x was `ElasticsearchNet5`, and for version 6.x+ was `ElasticsearchNet`. From version 2.0, support for the ID `ElasticsearchNet5` has been removed, and instead `ElasticsearchNet` now can be used for all versions of `Elasticsearch.Net`.
```

* Various internal APIs that were not intended for public consumption have been removed. 

In addition, some settings have been marked obsolete:

* Environment variables `DD_TRACE_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, and `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_SAMPLE_RATE` for controlling App Analytics are obsolete. App Analytics has been replaced with Tracing Without Limits. See [our documentation for details](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/legacy_app_analytics/).
* Setting `TracerSettings.AnalyticsEnabled` has similarly been marked obsolete.
* Environment variable `DD_TRACE_LOG_PATH` is deprecated. Use `DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` instead.

### Introduction of ISpan and IScope

In version 2.0 the public `Tracer` API has been updated to expose `IScope` and `ISpan` instead of `Scope` and `Span`. In most cases, this should not require any changes to your code, but if you are currently using explicit types (instead of inferred types), then you will need to replace usages of `Scope` with `IScope` and `Span` with `ISpan`:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

> // no changes required here

Reviewer: Just for consistency with the other comments in this snippet
```suggestion
// No changes required here
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var tracerSettings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

// Accessing settings for an unknown integration will log a warning
var settings = tracerSettings .Integrations["MyRandomIntegration"];

// changes are not persisted
settings.Enabled = false; 

// isEnabled is null, not false
bool? isEnabled = tracerSettings.Integrations["MyRandomIntegration"].Enabled;
```

### Default value of `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` is now `true`

Version 1.26.0 added support for the `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` feature flag, which enabled improved span names for ASP.NET and ASP.NET Core automatic instrumentation spans, an additional span for ASP.NET Core requests, and additional tags. 

In version 2.0, `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` is **enabled** by default. Due to the change in span names, you may need to update your monitors and dashboards to use the new resource names. 

If you do not wish to take advantage of the improved route names, you can disabled the feature by setting the `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` environment variable to `0`.

> ### CallSite instrumentation has been removed
> 
> From version 2.0, callsite automatic instrumentation has been removed and replaced with calltarget instrumentation. This has been the default mode [since version 1.28.0](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v1.28.0). Calltarget provides performance improvements over callsite, but we no longer support instrumenting some custom implementations of `DbCommand`. If you find spans are missing from your traces after upgrading, please raise an issue on GitHub, or contact [support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help).

Reviewer: It's fine to use "CallSite" and "callsite" internally, but all public docs should use "call-site instrumentation."

```suggestion
### Call-site instrumentation has been removed

From version 2.0, call-site automatic instrumentation has been removed and replaced with call-target instrumentation. This has been the default mode [since version 1.28.0](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v1.28.0). Call-target instrumentation provides performance improvements over call-site instrumentation, but we no longer support instrumenting some custom implementations of `DbCommand`. If you find spans are missing from your traces after upgrading, please raise an issue on GitHub, or contact [support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help).
```

> ### Integrations.json has been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `integrations.json` file has been removed
```

Reviewer 2: Seems weird in at title

Reviewer 3: Sorry for piling on, but I think the title could be renamed to:
```suggestion
### DD_INTEGRATIONS environment variable no longer needed
```

> The _integrations.json_ file is no required for instrumentation. You can remove references to this file, for example by deleting the `DD_INTEGRATIONS` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `integrations.json` file is no required for instrumentation. You can remove references to this file, for example by deleting the `DD_INTEGRATIONS` environment variable.
```

Author: This is one of my pet peeves: `integrations.json` isn't code, it shouldn't be in a "code" block 😉 But if this is standard and we do the same in our docs for example, then consistency is obviously more important 😛

Reviewer 4: `The `integrations.json` file is no required for instrumentation` 
The `integrations.json` file is no **longer** required for instrumentation?  😃

Reviewer 3: Adding Anna's suggestion as a GitHub suggestion (including the code block):
```suggestion
The `integrations.json` file is no longer required for instrumentation. You can remove references to this file, for example by deleting the `DD_INTEGRATIONS` environment variable.
```

3. Configure custom instrumentation, as shown below
4. [View your live data on Datadog](https://app.datadoghq.com/apm/traces).

### Configuring Datadog in code

There are multiple ways to configure your application, for example using Environment variables, _web.config_, or _datadog.json_, [as described in our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core/#configuration). This NuGet package also allows you to configure settings in code.

To override configuration settings, create an instance of `TracerSettings`, and pass it to the static `Tracer.Configure()` method:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Create a settings object using the existing 
// environment variables and config sources
var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

// Override a value
settings.GlobalTags.Add("SomeKey", "SomeValue");

// Replace the tracer configuration
Tracer.Configure(settings);
```

Calling `Tracer.Configure()` will replace the settings for all subsequent traces, both for custom instrumentation and for automatic instrumentation.

> :warning: Replacing the configuration should be done once, as early as possible in your application. 

> If you used to set the settings programatically, also note that transport related settings have been isolated in the `ExporterSettings`. It is still encapsulated in `TracerSettings`.

Reviewer 3: I think this could be included in the `Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0` section. It seem unnecessary to include right here

Reviewer 2: Fixed in 6d95cccfa92dc84cfcb1571a8608462735ff452a

> :warning: Ensure you dispose of the scope returned from StartActive. Disposing the scope will close the span, and ensure the trace is flushed to Datadog once all its spans are closed. 

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Start a new span
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("custom-operation")
{
    // Do something
}
```

## Release Notes

You can view the [notes for the latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases).  

## Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0

Version 2.0 of this package introduced a number of breaking changes to the API which allowed various performance improvements, added new features, and deprecated problematic ways of using the package. Most of these changes will not require any changes to your code, but some patterns are no longer supported or recommended.

This section describes some of the most important breaking changes. For full details see [the release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v2.0.0).

### Updates for supported .NET versions

> Version 2.0 of _Datadog.Trace_ added support for .NET Core 6.0 and raised the minimum supported version of .NET Framework from .NET Framework 4.5 to .NET Framework 4.6.1. If you are currently targeting version < 4.6.1, we suggest you upgrade [in line with Microsoft's guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-net-framework).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Version 2.0 of _Datadog.Trace_ added support for .NET 6.0 and raised the minimum supported version of .NET Framework from .NET Framework 4.5 to .NET Framework 4.6.1. If you are currently targeting version < 4.6.1, we suggest you upgrade [in line with Microsoft's guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-net-framework).
```

```

### TracerSettings are immutable

In version 1.x the `TracerSettings` object passed to a `Tracer` instance could be subsequently modified. Depending on the changes, these may or may not have been respected. In version 2.0, an `ImmutableTracerSettings` object is created when the `Tracer` instance is configured. Subsequent changes to the `TracerSettings` instance will not be observed by `Tracer`. 

This change should not generally require changes to your code, but the type of `Tracer.Settings` is now an `ImmutableTracerSettings` instance, not a `TracerSettings` instance.

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();
settings.TraceEnabled = false;   // TracerSettings are mutable 

Tracer.Configure(settings);

// All properties on Settings are now read-only 
// Tracer.Instance.Settings.TraceEnabled = false; // <- DOES NOT COMPILE
```

### ADO.NET integrations can be disabled individually

In version 1.x, you could disable automatic instrumentation of all ADO.NET integrations using the `AdoNet` integration ID. From version 2.0, you can now also disable specific integrations using the following integration IDs:

* `MySql`

> * `Npgsql` (PostreSQL)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `Npgsql` (PostgreSQL)
```

* `Oracle`
* `SqlClient` (SQL Server)
* `Sqlite`

This allows you to disable specific ADO.NET integrations if required. [See our documentation for a complete list of supported integration IDS](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core/#integrations). Note that you can still disable _all_ ADO.NET integrations using the `AdoNet` integration ID.

This change also removes the now-obsolete `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` setting and the corresponding environment variable `DD_TRACE_ADONET_EXCLUDED_TYPES`. Replace usages of these with `TracerSettings.Integrations["<INTEGRATION_NAME>"].Enabled` and `DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION_NAME>_ENABLED`, respectively: 

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

> settings.AdoNetExcludedTypes.Add("MySql");      // <- Delete this line

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// settings.AdoNetExcludedTypes.Add("MySql");      // <- Delete this line
```

settings.Integrations["MySql"].Enabled = false; // <- Add this line
```

### `ElasticsearchNet5` integration ID has been removed

In version 1.x, the integration ID for `Elasticsearch.Net` in version 5.x was `ElasticsearchNet5`, and for version 6.x+ was `ElasticsearchNet`. From version 2.0, support for the ID `ElasticsearchNet5` has been removed, and instead `ElasticsearchNet` now can be used for all versions of `Elasticsearch.Net`.

Replace usages of `ElasticsearchNet5` with `ElasticsearchNet`

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

settings.Integrations["ElasticsearchNet5"].Enabled = false; // <- Delete this line
settings.Integrations["ElasticsearchNet"].Enabled = false;  // <- Add this line
```

### Obsolete APIs have been removed

The following deprecated APIs have been removed.

> * `TracerSettings.DebugEnabled`: Enable debug mode by setting the `DD_TRACE_DEBUG` environment variable to `1`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `TracerSettings.DebugEnabled` has been removed. Setting the `DD_TRACE_DEBUG` environment variable to `1` instead.
```

* `Tags.ForceDrop` and `Tags.ForceKeep` have been removed. Use `Tags.ManualDrop` and `Tags.ManualKeep` respectively instead.

> * `SpanTypes` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `MongoDb` and `Redis` have been removed.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `SpanTypes` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `MongoDb` and `Redis`, have been removed.  
```

> * `Tags` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `AmqpCommand` and `CosmosDbContainer` have been removed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `Tags` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `AmqpCommand` and `CosmosDbContainer`, have been removed.
```

* `Tracer.Create()` has been removed. Use `Tracer.Configure()` instead.

> * `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` has been removed. Use `TracerSettings.Integrations` to disable automatic instrumentation for ADO.NET integrations in the same way as other integrations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` has been removed. Use `TracerSettings.Integrations` to disable automatic instrumentation for ADO.NET integrations.
```

using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation")
{
}

// No Longer compiles (incorrect usage of Scope)
using (Scope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation")
{
}

// Correct usage with explicit type
using (IScope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation")
{
}
```

### Simplification of the tracer interface

In addition to returning `IScope`, the `Tracer.StartActive` method has been simplified to provide a `SpanCreationSettings`. In addition, we have removed the possibility to override the service name.

### Incorrect integration names are ignored

In version 2.0, any changes made to an `IntegrationSettings` object for an unknown `IntegrationId` will not be persisted. Instead, a warning will be logged describing the invalid access.

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var tracerSettings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

// Accessing settings for an unknown integration will log a warning
var settings = tracerSettings .Integrations["MyRandomIntegration"];

// changes are not persisted
settings.Enabled = false; 

// isEnabled is null, not false
bool? isEnabled = tracerSettings.Integrations["MyRandomIntegration"].Enabled;
```

> 

Reviewer 3: I think it could help to subgroup the last 3 parts into a `### Automatic instrumentation changes` and make the previous h3's into h4's

Reviewer 2: Implemented in 6d95cccfa92dc84cfcb1571a8608462735ff452a

# Datadog.Trace NuGet package

This package contains the Datadog .NET APM tracer for configuring custom instrumentation.

> If you are only using automatic tracing, **you do not need this package**. Please [read our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet) for details on how to install the tracer for automatic instrumentation. 

## Getting Started

1. Configure the Datadog agent for APM [as described in our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core#configure-the-datadog-agent-for-apm).
2. For automatic instrumentation, install and enable the tracer [as described in our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core/?tab=windows#install-the-tracer). 
3. Configure custom instrumentation, as shown below
4. [View your live data on Datadog](https://app.datadoghq.com/apm/traces).

### Configuring Datadog in code

> There are multiple ways to configure your application, for example using Environment variables, _web.config_, or _datadog.json_, [as described in our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core/#configuration). This NuGet package also allows you to configure settings in code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to configure your application: using environment variables, a `web.config` file, or a `datadog.json` file, [as described in our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core/#configuration). This NuGet package also allows you to configure settings in code.
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Create a settings object using the existing 
// environment variables and config sources
var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

// Override a value
settings.GlobalTags.Add("SomeKey", "SomeValue");

// Replace the tracer configuration
Tracer.Configure(settings);
```

Calling `Tracer.Configure()` will replace the settings for all subsequent traces, both for custom instrumentation and for automatic instrumentation.

> :warning: Replacing the configuration should be done once, as early as possible in your application. 

 ### Create custom traces

To create and activate a custom span, use `Tracer.Instance.StartActive()`. If a trace is already active (when created by automatic instrumentation, for example), the span will be part of the current trace. If there is no current trace, a new one will be started.

> :warning: Ensure you dispose of the scope returned from StartActive. Disposing the scope will close the span, and ensure the trace is flushed to Datadog once all its spans are closed. 

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Start a new span

> using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("custom-operation")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("custom-operation"))
```

{
    // Do something
}
```

## Release Notes

You can view the [notes for the latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases).  

## Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0

> Version 2.0 of this package introduced a number of breaking changes to the API which allowed various performance improvements, added new features, and deprecated problematic ways of using the package. Most of these changes will not require any changes to your code, but some patterns are no longer supported or recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Tracer 2.0 introduces a number of breaking changes to the API which allow various performance improvements, add new features, and deprecate problematic ways of using the package. Most of these changes do not require any changes to your code, but some patterns are no longer supported or recommended.
```

This section describes some of the most important breaking changes. For full details see [the release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v2.0.0).

> ### Updates for supported .NET versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Supported .NET versions
```

> Version 2.0 of _Datadog.Trace_ added support for .NET 6.0 and raised the minimum supported version of .NET Framework from .NET Framework 4.5 to .NET Framework 4.6.1. If you are currently targeting version < 4.6.1, we suggest you upgrade [in line with Microsoft's guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-net-framework).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Tracer 2.0 adds support for .NET 6.0 and raises the minimum supported version of .NET Framework from .NET Framework 4.5 to .NET Framework 4.6.1. If you are currently targeting version < 4.6.1, we suggest you upgrade [in line with Microsoft's guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/lifecycle/products/microsoft-net-framework).
```

For full details of supported versions, see [our documentation on .NET Framework compatibility requirements](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-framework) and [.NET/.NET Core compatibility requirements](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core).

### Singleton Tracer instances

> In version 1.x, you could create new `Tracer` instances with different settings for each instance, using `new Tracer()`. From version 2.0 this constructor is marked `[Obsolete]`, and it is no longer possible to create `Tracer` instances with different settings. This was done to avoid multiple problematic patterns that were hard for users to detect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In version 1.x, you could create new `Tracer` instances with different settings for each instance, using `new Tracer()`. In version 2.0 this constructor is marked `[Obsolete]` and it is no longer possible to create `Tracer` instances with different settings. This was done to avoid multiple problematic patterns that were hard for users to detect.
```

Update your code to the following:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Create your settings as before
var settings = new TracerSettings();

// var tracer = new Tracer(settings) // <- Delete this line
Tracer.Configure(settings);          // <- Add this line
```

### TracerSettings are immutable

> In version 1.x the `TracerSettings` object passed to a `Tracer` instance could be subsequently modified. Depending on the changes, these may or may not have been respected. In version 2.0, an `ImmutableTracerSettings` object is created when the `Tracer` instance is configured. Subsequent changes to the `TracerSettings` instance will not be observed by `Tracer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In version 1.x the `TracerSettings` object passed to a `Tracer` instance could be modified later. Depending on the changes, the tracer may or may respect them. In version 2.0, an `ImmutableTracerSettings` object is created when the `Tracer` instance is configured. Subsequent changes to the `TracerSettings` instance will not be observed by `Tracer`.
```

> This change should not generally require changes to your code, but the type of `Tracer.Settings` is now an `ImmutableTracerSettings` instance, not a `TracerSettings` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change should not require changes to your code, but the property `Tracer.Settings` now returns `ImmutableTracerSettings`, not `TracerSettings`.
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();
settings.TraceEnabled = false;   // TracerSettings are mutable 

Tracer.Configure(settings);

> // All properties on Settings are now read-only 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// All properties on Tracer.Settings are now read-only 
```

// Tracer.Instance.Settings.TraceEnabled = false; // <- DOES NOT COMPILE
```

> Also note that transport related settings have been isolated in the `ExporterSettings`. It is still encapsulated in `TracerSettings`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Exporter settings

Exporter-related settings were grouped into the `TracerSettings.Exporter` property.

csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();
// settings.AgentUri = "http://localhost:8126";        // <- Delete this line
settings.Exporter.AgentUri = "http://localhost:8126";  // <- Add this line
```

(Sorry about that `csharp`. I can't nest `csharp` code block into a `suggestion` code block.)

> ### ADO.NET integrations can be disabled individually

Reviewer: Users can configure more than just "disable"
```suggestion
### Configure ADO.NET integrations individually
```

> In version 1.x, you could disable automatic instrumentation of all ADO.NET integrations using the `AdoNet` integration ID. From version 2.0, you can now also disable specific integrations using the following integration IDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In version 1.x, you could configure automatic instrumentation of all ADO.NET integrations using the `AdoNet` integration ID. In version 2.0, you can now also disable specific integrations using the following integration IDs:
```

* `MySql`
* `Npgsql` (PostgreSQL)
* `Oracle`
* `SqlClient` (SQL Server)
* `Sqlite`

This allows you to disable specific ADO.NET integrations if required. [See our documentation for a complete list of supported integration IDS](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/dotnet-core/#integrations). Note that you can still disable _all_ ADO.NET integrations using the `AdoNet` integration ID.

This change also removes the now-obsolete `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` setting and the corresponding environment variable `DD_TRACE_ADONET_EXCLUDED_TYPES`. Replace usages of these with `TracerSettings.Integrations["<INTEGRATION_NAME>"].Enabled` and `DD_TRACE_<INTEGRATION_NAME>_ENABLED`, respectively:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

// settings.AdoNetExcludedTypes.Add("MySql");      // <- Delete this line
settings.Integrations["MySql"].Enabled = false; // <- Add this line
```

### `ElasticsearchNet5` integration ID has been removed

> In version 1.x, the integration ID for `Elasticsearch.Net` in version 5.x was `ElasticsearchNet5`, and for version 6.x+ was `ElasticsearchNet`. From version 2.0, support for the ID `ElasticsearchNet5` has been removed, and instead `ElasticsearchNet` now can be used for all versions of `Elasticsearch.Net`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In version 1.x, the integration ID for version 5.x of `Elasticsearch.Net` was `ElasticsearchNet5`, and the integration ID for version 6.x+ was `ElasticsearchNet`. In version 2.0, `ElasticsearchNet5` has been removed. Use `ElasticsearchNet` for all versions of `Elasticsearch.Net`.
```

Replace usages of `ElasticsearchNet5` with `ElasticsearchNet`

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

settings.Integrations["ElasticsearchNet5"].Enabled = false; // <- Delete this line
settings.Integrations["ElasticsearchNet"].Enabled = false;  // <- Add this line
```

### Obsolete APIs have been removed

> The following deprecated APIs have been removed.
> 
> * `TracerSettings.DebugEnabled` has been removed. Set the `DD_TRACE_DEBUG` environment variable to `1` to enable debug mode.
> * `Tags.ForceDrop` and `Tags.ForceKeep` have been removed. Use `Tags.ManualDrop` and `Tags.ManualKeep` respectively instead.
> * `SpanTypes` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `MongoDb` and `Redis` have been removed.
> * `Tags` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `AmqpCommand` and `CosmosDbContainer`, have been removed.
> * `Tracer.Create()` has been removed. Use `Tracer.Configure()` instead.
> * `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` has been removed. Use `TracerSettings.Integrations` to disable automatic instrumentation for ADO.NET integrations.
> * Various internal APIs that were not intended for public consumption have been removed.

Reviewer: Active voice

```suggestion
The following deprecated APIs were removed.

* `TracerSettings.DebugEnabled` was removed. Set the `DD_TRACE_DEBUG` environment variable to `1` to enable debug mode.
* `Tags.ForceDrop` and `Tags.ForceKeep` were removed. Use `Tags.ManualDrop` and `Tags.ManualKeep` respectively instead.
* `SpanTypes` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `MongoDb` and `Redis`, were removed.
* `Tags` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `AmqpCommand` and `CosmosDbContainer`, were removed.
* `Tracer.Create()` was removed. Use `Tracer.Configure()` instead.
* `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` was removed. Use `TracerSettings.Integrations` to configure ADO.NET automatic instrumentation.
* Various internal APIs not intended for public consumption were removed.
```

> In addition, some settings have been marked obsolete:
> 
> * Environment variables `DD_TRACE_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, and `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_SAMPLE_RATE` for controlling App Analytics are obsolete. App Analytics has been replaced with Tracing Without Limits. See [our documentation for details](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/legacy_app_analytics/).
> * Setting `TracerSettings.AnalyticsEnabled` has similarly been marked obsolete.
> * Environment variable `DD_TRACE_LOG_PATH` is deprecated. Use `DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, some settings were marked obsolete in 2.0:

* Environment variables `DD_TRACE_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, and `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_SAMPLE_RATE` for controlling App Analytics are obsolete. App Analytics has been replaced with Tracing Without Limits. See [our documentation for details](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/legacy_app_analytics/).
* `TracerSettings.AnalyticsEnabled`, `IntegrationSettings.AnalyticsEnabled`, and `IntegrationSettings.AnalyticsSampleRate` were marked obsolete.
* Environment variable `DD_TRACE_LOG_PATH` is deprecated. Use `DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` instead.
```

> ### Introduction of ISpan and IScope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Introduction of `ISpan` and `IScope`
```

> In version 2.0 the public `Scope` and `Span` classes have been made internal. We now expose `IScope` and `ISpan` instead. The `Tracer` API has been updated accordingly. In most cases, this should not require any changes to your code, but if you are currently using explicit types (instead of inferred types), then you will need to replace usages of `Scope` with `IScope` and `Span` with `ISpan`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 2.0 makes the public `Scope` and `Span` classes internal. Instead, we now expose public `IScope` and `ISpan` interfaces and the `Tracer` API was updated accordingly. If you are currently using explicit types (instead of interring types with `var`), replace usages of `Scope` with `IScope` and `Span` with `ISpan`:
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// No changes required here

> using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation")
> {
> }
> 
> // No Longer compiles (incorrect usage of Scope)
> using (Scope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation")
> {
> }
> 
> // Correct usage with explicit type
> using (IScope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation")
> {
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
}

// No Longer compiles (incorrect usage of Scope)
using (Scope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
}

// Correct usage with explicit type
using (IScope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
}
```

```

### Simplification of the tracer interface

> In addition to returning `IScope`, the `Tracer.StartActive` method has been simplified to provide a `SpanCreationSettings`. In addition, we have removed the possibility to override the service name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to returning `IScope`, the `Tracer.StartActive` method was simplified by replacing several parameters with a single `SpanCreationSettings`. We also have remove the possibility to override the service name from `Tracer.StartActive`. Instead, set `Span.ServiceName` after creating the span.
```

### Incorrect integration names are ignored

In version 2.0, any changes made to an `IntegrationSettings` object for an unknown `IntegrationId` will not be persisted. Instead, a warning will be logged describing the invalid access.

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var tracerSettings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();

// Accessing settings for an unknown integration will log a warning
var settings = tracerSettings .Integrations["MyRandomIntegration"];

// changes are not persisted
settings.Enabled = false; 

// isEnabled is null, not false
bool? isEnabled = tracerSettings.Integrations["MyRandomIntegration"].Enabled;
```

### Automatic instrumentation changes

> #### Default value of `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` is now `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Default value of feature flag `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` is now `true`
```

Version 1.26.0 added support for the `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` feature flag, which enabled improved span names for ASP.NET and ASP.NET Core automatic instrumentation spans, an additional span for ASP.NET Core requests, and additional tags.

In version 2.0, `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` is **enabled** by default. Due to the change in span names, you may need to update your monitors and dashboards to use the new resource names.

If you do not wish to take advantage of the improved route names, you can disabled the feature by setting the `DD_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` environment variable to `0`.

> #### Call-site instrumentation has been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Call-site instrumentation removed
```

> From version 2.0, call-site automatic instrumentation has been removed and replaced with call-target instrumentation. This has been the default mode [since version 1.28.0](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v1.28.0). Call-target instrumentation provides performance improvements over call-site instrumentation, but we no longer support instrumenting some custom implementations of `DbCommand`. If you find spans are missing from your traces after upgrading, please raise an issue on GitHub, or contact [support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Call-site automatic instrumentation was removed in .NET Tracer 2.0 and replaced with call-target instrumentation. This was the default mode [since version 1.28.0](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases/tag/v1.28.0). Call-target instrumentation provides performance and reliability improvements over call-site instrumentation, but it does not support instrumenting custom implementations of `DbCommand` for now. If you find spans are missing from your traces after upgrading, please raise an issue on GitHub, or contact [support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help).
```

Reviewer 3: The "This" in the second sentence seems a little ambiguous. Maybe just restate "Call-target instrumentation"?

> #### DD_INTEGRATIONS environment variable no longer needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `DD_INTEGRATIONS` environment variable no longer needed
```

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Create your settings as before
var settings = new TracerSettings();

// var tracer = new Tracer(settings) // <- Delete this line
Tracer.Configure(settings);          // <- Add this line
```

### TracerSettings are immutable

In version 1.x the `TracerSettings` object passed to a `Tracer` instance could be modified later. Depending on the changes, the tracer may or may respect them. In version 2.0, an `ImmutableTracerSettings` object is created when the `Tracer` instance is configured. Subsequent changes to the `TracerSettings` instance will not be observed by `Tracer`.

This change should not require changes to your code, but the property `Tracer.Settings` now returns `ImmutableTracerSettings`, not `TracerSettings`.

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

var settings = TracerSettings.FromDefaultSources();
settings.TraceEnabled = false;   // TracerSettings are mutable 

Tracer.Configure(settings);

// All properties on Tracer.Settings are now read-only 
// Tracer.Instance.Settings.TraceEnabled = false; // <- DOES NOT COMPILE
```

### Exporter settings

Exporter-related settings were grouped into the `TracerSettings.Exporter` property.

> csharp

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```csharp
```

* `SpanTypes` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `MongoDb` and `Redis`, were removed.
* `Tags` associated with automatic instrumentation spans, such as `AmqpCommand` and `CosmosDbContainer`, were removed.
* `Tracer.Create()` was removed. Use `Tracer.Configure()` instead.
* `TracerSettings.AdoNetExcludedTypes` was removed. Use `TracerSettings.Integrations` to configure ADO.NET automatic instrumentation.
* Various internal APIs not intended for public consumption were removed.

In addition, some settings were marked obsolete in 2.0:

* Environment variables `DD_TRACE_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_ENABLED`, and `DD_TRACE_{0}_ANALYTICS_SAMPLE_RATE` for controlling App Analytics are obsolete. App Analytics has been replaced with Tracing Without Limits. See [our documentation for details](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/legacy_app_analytics/).
* `TracerSettings.AnalyticsEnabled`, `IntegrationSettings.AnalyticsEnabled`, and `IntegrationSettings.AnalyticsSampleRate` were marked obsolete.
* Environment variable `DD_TRACE_LOG_PATH` is deprecated. Use `DD_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` instead.

> ### Introduction of `ISpan` and `IScope`

Reviewer 3: Should we also talk about `ITracer` here?

Reviewer: Thanks, added some text.

> Version 2.0 makes the public `Scope` and `Span` classes internal. Instead, we now expose public `IScope` and `ISpan` interfaces and the `Tracer` API was updated accordingly. If you are currently using explicit types (instead of interring types with `var`), replace usages of `Scope` with `IScope` and `Span` with `ISpan`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Version 2.0 makes the public `Scope` and `Span` classes internal. Instead, we now expose public `IScope` and `ISpan` interfaces and the `Tracer` API was updated accordingly. If you are currently using explicit types (instead of inferring types with `var`), replace usages of `Scope` with `IScope` and `Span` with `ISpan`:
```

Reviewer: Oops, thanks!

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// No changes required here
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
}

// No Longer compiles (incorrect usage of Scope)
using (Scope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
}

// Correct usage with explicit type
using (IScope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
}
```

### Simplification of the tracer interface

> In addition to returning `IScope`, the `Tracer.StartActive` method was simplified by replacing several parameters with a single `SpanCreationSettings`. We also have remove the possibility to override the service name from `Tracer.StartActive`. Instead, set `Span.ServiceName` after creating the span.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to returning `IScope`, the `Tracer.StartActive` method was simplified by replacing several parameters with a single `SpanCreationSettings`. We have also removed the possibility to override the service name from `Tracer.StartActive`. Instead, set `Span.ServiceName` after creating the span.
```

# Datadog.Trace NuGet package

This package contains the Datadog .NET APM tracer for configuring custom instrumentation.

> > If you are only using automatic tracing, **you do not need this package**. Please [read our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet) for details on how to install the tracer for automatic instrumentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> If you are only using automatic instrumentation, **you do not need this package**. Please [read our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet) for details on how to install the tracer for automatic instrumentation.
```

// Override a value
settings.GlobalTags.Add("SomeKey", "SomeValue");

// Replace the tracer configuration
Tracer.Configure(settings);
```

Calling `Tracer.Configure()` will replace the settings for all subsequent traces, both for custom instrumentation and for automatic instrumentation.

> :warning: Replacing the configuration should be done once, as early as possible in your application.

 ### Create custom traces

To create and activate a custom span, use `Tracer.Instance.StartActive()`. If a trace is already active (when created by automatic instrumentation, for example), the span will be part of the current trace. If there is no current trace, a new one will be started.

> :warning: Ensure you dispose of the scope returned from StartActive. Disposing the scope will close the span, and ensure the trace is flushed to Datadog once all its spans are closed.

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// Start a new span
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("custom-operation"))
{
    // Do something
}
```

## Release Notes

You can view the [notes for the latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases).

## Upgrading from 1.x to 2.0

> .NET Tracer 2.0 introduces a number of breaking changes to the API which allow various performance improvements, add new features, and deprecate problematic ways of using the package. Most of these changes do not require any changes to your code, but some patterns are no longer supported or recommended.

Reviewer 3: nit: Change to "several" so it's plural and matches with the verbs "allow"/"add"/"deprecate"?

```suggestion
.NET Tracer 2.0 introduces several breaking changes to the API which allow various performance improvements, add new features, and deprecate problematic ways of using the package. Most of these changes do not require any changes to your code, but some patterns are no longer supported or recommended.
```

To update your `Scope/Span` code:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// No changes required here (using var)
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
    var span = scope.Span;
    // ...
}

// No longer compiles (Scope and Span are no longer public)
using (Scope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
    Span span = scope.Span;
    // ...
}

// Correct usage with explicit types (using IScope and ISpan)
using (IScope scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
    ISpan span = scope.Span;
    // ...
}
```

### Simplification of the tracer interface

In addition to returning `IScope`, several parameters parameters in the `Tracer.StartActive` method signature were replaced with a single `SpanCreationSettings`. The span's service name can no longer be set from `Tracer.StartActive`. Instead, set `Span.ServiceName` after creating the span.

To update your `Scope/Span` code:

```csharp
using Datadog.Trace;

// No changes required here (using only operation name)
using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation"))
{
    // ...
}

// No longer compiles (most parameters removed)

> using (var scope = Tracer.Instance.StartActive("my-operation", serviceName: "my-service", ...))

Reviewer 3: TODO: Add one more example that does not use service name

Reviewer 3: Actually, I just need to use SpanCreatingSettings. Done in latest commit
